---
title: Say NO to Gnulib
description: ...and Debian.
---

If you are a GNU maintainer and are not willing to be criticized by people sick
of your bullshit software, do not read this post.

Also, obligatory notice on every post that touches GNU: No, nothing in this post
is political. I am perfectly fine with using GNU licensed software, and find it
more favourable than MIT licensed software as it protects user freedoms. (My
personal choice however is MPL, as it doesn't deem your software dead on arrival
at places that actually make money and feed hungry mouths)

---

# Say NO to Gnulib

The commonly overlooked but also very important argument for dropping GNU
coreutils (or any other GNU tool that depends on Gnulib) for anything other than
the most core-level bootstrapping needs is that it depends on Gnulib.

Gnulib is a huge blob of C and 80 thousand lines of m4 that has crusted over 30+
years and is almost impossible to build correctly and hermetically, has to be
manually patched in every single program that embeds it (if trying to be
hermetic, and correct), [^Gnulib is not a library, but a collection of source
files that you are supposed to embed into your program, so you can expect to be
pulling your hair out as it is well-rooted into most programs that embed it.
Have fun packaging it all!] rewards bad OSes, makes good OSes shrivel in pain,
makes packagers go bald & makes issues hard to diagnose and debug.

It's so incredibly easy to build it wrong and create a shitty non-reproducible
distro (and it is built non-hermetically by default). At least in Rust (or in
other ecosystems, such as Go) and the general ecosystem of Rust, `Cargo.toml` is
pretty well-defined and `build.rs` scripts don't do anything that insane. (Hell,
even the [C compilation tools used inside crates](https://lib.rs/cc) are shared
deps and are well-defined).

I don't trust the average distro to build any toolchain made by GNU properly,
and I do not trust them to produce a proper set of system tools either because
of Gnulib and other bad build tools.

I do however trust the average distro (not Debian, they are lower than average
and suck at packaging [(Yes, really.)](#debian-sucks-at-packaging) to build
Uutils tools & any other Rust tool correctly, because it is pretty relatively
straightforward compared to hundreds of thousands of lines of hard to audit &
ancient m4. It also won't misbehave or segfault when you interact with a
misbehaving NTFS partition.

I hope Uutils coreutils & Uutils findutils and so on achieve near perfect
compliance so I do not need to serve GNU tools to my users.

> Also, keep in mind that it doesn't have to be Rust or uutils or anything that
> is shilled by the "Rust Strike Force" in particular. I would also welcome the
> GNU people fixing up their shitty build tooling & making their software behave
> correctly. But that isn't happening any time soon, so we are starting from
> scratch & fixing (quite) a few itches on the way.

Read more about this on the
[Sortix wiki.](https://gitlab.com/sortix/sortix/-/wikis/Gnulib)

# Debian sucks at packaging

Yes, really.

From
[Phoronix, on bcachefs-tools being "impossible to maintain in a package collection":](https://www.phoronix.com/news/Debian-Orphans-Bcachefs-Tools)

> So, back in April the Rust dependencies for bcachefs-tools in Debian didn’t at
> all match the build requirements. I got some help from the Rust team who says
> that the common practice is to relax the dependencies of Rust software so that
> it builds in Debian. So errno, which needed the exact version 0.2, was relaxed
> so that it could build with version 0.4 in Debian, udev 0.7 was relaxed for
> 0.8 in Debian, memoffset from 0.8.5 to 0.6.5, paste from 1.0.11 to 1.08 and
> bindgen from 0.69.9 to 0.66.
>
> I found this a bit disturbing, but it seems that some Rust people have lots of
> confidence that if something builds, it will run fine. And at least it did
> build, and the resulting binaries did work, although I’m personally still not
> very comfortable or confident about this approach (perhaps that might change
> as I learn more about Rust).
>
> **With that in mind, at this point you may wonder how any distribution could
> sanely package this. The problem is that they can’t. Fedora and other
> distributions with stable releases take a similar approach to what we’ve done
> in Debian, while distributions with much more relaxed policies (like Arch)
> include all the dependencies as they are vendored upstream.**

Incredibly foolish. You are not supposed to package every single crate manually,
and you should not be anyway.

The way you should package any programming language that has a widely used and
generally well-defined and static build system is to generate (unlisted) package
definitions from packages using a script or tool (such as
`cargo metadata -> parse json -> puke out package manifests`), and only add
extra configuration to packages that depend on anything external (such as a C
library, or CMake, or perl, or Go for some godforsaken reason (Why,
`aws-lc-sys`, why?)).

It's also not hard to use a dependency solver algorithm to try and deduplicate
all crates required in the whole package repository using a pre-made library,
such as [`lib.rs/pubgrub`](https://lib.rs/crates/pubgrub). You can have the best
of all worlds.

In general - Debian is a distro stuck in the 90s that assumes every language
ecosystem is as fragmented, differing and inconsistent as C's. That's not the
case anymore, Debian maintainers should wake up from their slumber and modernize
their tools, automating way more. The future is not C[^Nor is it Rust, but
that's the best we have right now & it is pretty damn good!], and a good distro
cannot assume that.

> And so, my adventure with bcachefs-tools comes to an end. I’d advise that if
> you consider using bcachefs for any kind of production use in the near future,
> you first consider how supportable it is long-term, and whether there’s really
> anyone at all that is succeeding in providing stable support for it.

It's trivial to support!
[Here is what Nixpkgs, the biggest Nix package
collection, Nixpkgs, does](^https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/6e987485eb2c77e5dcc5af4e3c70843711ef9251/pkgs/by-name/bc/bcachefs-tools/package.nix) -
look, it's all 140 lines of code!

## But it can be even better

Nixpkgs has [`pkgs.buildRustCrate`](https://noogle.dev/f/pkgs/buildRustCrate),
to build crates without Cargo, but currently doesn't use it for most packages,
so it doesn't have crate-level incremental rebuilds. This may change in the
future, and when it does, compiling Rust programs will take a fraction of the
time because you aren't building dependencies over and over and over and over
again, and can utilize `cache.nixos.org`, or any other cache.

It will also decrease the amount of lines you'll have to write in Nixpkgs
package specifications, because you'll no longer have to specify all external
dependencies for a program. Why? Because external, non-Cargo managed
dependencies will be configured in a
[`per-crate basis,`](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/f101cc2c243f0f3869f9a214d71b736c66b5317a/pkgs/build-support/rust/default-crate-overrides.nix)
so a top-level Rust program that uses a crate that requires `liburing` won't
actually see `liburing` when being compiled.

And here's another great part: Since the `pkgs` view is not a 1:1 map of all the
derivations (build units, but in a fancy Nix / Functional Software Deployment
Model way), these generated definitions won't pollute search or interfere with
users. It's just a plus in almost every way imagineable.[^A negative would be
the sandbox creation overhead of `nix-daemon`, but that shouldn't be significant
for most of Rust builds from scratch, and for those that are, the already-cached
crates will mitigate the losses pretty easily.]

<blockquote>

You can actually use this right now with
[`cargo2nix`](https://github.com/cargo2nix/cargo2nix) or
[`crate2nix`](https://github.com/nix-community/crate2nix), though expect some
headaches. (I recently spent a few hours getting `crate2nix` to work on a huge
codebase with a lot of native dependencies, and `aws-lc-sys` was the biggest
headache on darwin)

<details>
<summary>The extra crate overrides I ended up with, if it helps.</summary>

```nix
{ pkgs, ... }:
{
  openssl = old: {
    buildInputs = old.buildInputs or [ ] ++ [
      pkgs.openssl
    ];
  };

  openssl-sys = old: {
    RUSTFLAGS = "--cfg ossl111 --cfg ossl110 --cfg ossl101";

    "${pkgs.stdenv.buildPlatform.rust.cargoEnvVarTarget}_OPENSSL_DIR" = "${pkgs.openssl.dev}";
    OPENSSL_NO_VENDOR = "1";
    OPENSSL_STATIC = "0";
  };

  aws-lc-sys = old: {
    nativeBuildInputs = old.nativeBuildInputs or [ ] ++ [
      pkgs.cmake
      pkgs.go
      pkgs.libclang
      pkgs.perl
      pkgs.nasm
    ];
    env.CFLAGS = "-D_DARWIN_C_SOURCE"; # Hours of my life wasted to figure this out.
  };

  librocksdb-sys = old: {
    buildInputs = old.buildInputs or [ ] ++ [
      pkgs.zlib
      pkgs.zstd
      pkgs.bzip2
      pkgs.lz4
    ];
  };

  tokio = old: {
    extraRustcOpts = old.extraRustcOpts or [ ] ++ [
      "--cfg tokio_unstable"
    ];
  };

  uvm_syn = old: {
    extraRustcOpts = old.extraRustcOpts or [ ] ++ [
      "-Awarnings"
    ];
  };

  pyo3_build_config = old: {
    buildInputs = old.buildInputs or [ ] ++ [
      pkgs.python313
    ];
  };
}
```

I also had to patch the `Cargo.nix` generator because it was not handling or
even exposing a way to enable extra cfg flags separately, but maybe this is
fixed in `cargo2nix`?

Anyway, we do not talk about the general state of Nix/Nixpkgs/NixOS tooling.
(But it's still better than every other distro out there)

</details>
</blockquote>

## Takeaway...?

**Package management and build systems aren't hard, your tools are just bad.**

That's why I'm working on a new system named "Cull", which will hopefully solve
a lot of these problems (and thus fix the mistakes of Nix). Stay tuned!

It will also be cross platform
(Linux/BSDs/Darwin/Windows/\<insert-your-favourite-os-that-has-rust-support-here>),
and cacheable at the expression level. No waiting for your system closure to
evaluate for 5 minutes.
