---
date: 2025-07-20
---

You will never be a platform engineer. You have no tooling, no namespacing, no
developer agency. You are a sysadmin twisted by buzzwords and job titles into a
crude mockery of BOFH's perfection. All the "validation" you get is two-faced
and half-hearted. Behind your back developers mock you. Your boss is disgusted
and ashamed of you, your "cloud support agent" laughs at your ghoulish
infrastructure behind closed doors. Developers are utterly repulsed by you.
Decades of tooling advancements have allowed developers to sniff out frauds with
incredible efficiency. Even "DevOps Engineers" who "pass" look uncanny and
unnatural to a developer. Your decrepit Git repos are a dead giveaway. And even
if you manage to convince a developer to follow your processes, he'll turn tail
and bolt the second he gets a whiff of your diseased, infected Terraform
modules. You will never be happy. You wrench out a fake smile every single
morning and tell yourself it's gonna be ok, but deep inside you feel the AWS
costs creeping up like a weed, ready to crush you under the unbearable weight.
Eventually it'll be too much to bear - you'll turn in your 2 weeks' notice, cry
in the bathroom, `terraform apply` to production, and plunge into the cold
abyss. Developers will find you, heartbroken but relieved that they no longer
have to live with the unbearable processes and procedures. They'll fire you with
cause under 'incompetence', and every recruiter for the rest of eternity will
know you're a shitty sysadmin. Your body will decay and go back to the dust, and
all that will remain of your legacy is an archived repo that has your full name
attached to it. This is your fate. This is what you chose. There is no turning
back.
